- [Instructor] In a microservice architecture,
the identity service provides two critical capabilities:
authentication and token management.
Now, as a general rule of thumb, in the security domain,
you do not want to build your own solutions.
You want to source them from expert providers.
Luckily, there are many open-source and commercial identity
and access management platforms that provide authentication
and token management right out of the box.
We can use these solutions in order to fulfill
the capabilities required for our identity service.
Now if you're in an enterprise setting,
it's highly likely that your IAM platform
has been selected for you.
As a developer or a security engineer,
you're going to find yourself integrating microservices
with the IAM platform in order to secure them.
From an integration perspective,
we're primarily interested in four capabilities provided
by these platforms: authentication, identity management,
security standard implementations, and token management.
Authentication is extremely complex
and it's really easy to get it wrong.
That's why you want to source that capability
from an IAM platform.
Leading platforms seamlessly integrate
with many different types of identity stores
in order to authenticate the user.
Identity store store users credentials,
and information like permissions about them that we can use
to make access control decisions within a system.
Identity stores range from local databases,
to corporate held apps,
to even social networking sites
that allow users to use their credentials on that platform
to authenticate in another system.
For extra sensitive scenarios,
IAM platforms also support multi-factor authentication.
Using this technique,
we combine their credentials
with another form of authentication,
like a one-time pin or biometrics.
Identity management is another important security capability
provided by these platforms.
It's essential to understand
who or what is accessing a resource, and specifically,
what permissions they have to access them.
There are many advanced scenarios
for accessing a microservice
that go beyond role-based permissions,
such as when a user delegates permission to their data
to another application.
Using the identity management capabilities found
in an IAM platform, we can satisfy these scenarios.
These solutions are also great sources for implementations
of security standards and protocols used by microservices,
such as OAuth two, OpenID Connect, and JSON Web Token.
These are the details I mentioned in our pattern discussion.
And a one item that clearly fall into the category
of concepts you need to understand,
but do not want to build yourself.
If you find yourself building an authorization server,
it's time to take a step back and readdress the situation.
Tokens are also extremely important
for securing microservices,
and you'll find capabilities for managing them
within many identity and access management platforms.
The capability to create and verify tokens
is handled by an authorization server,
which is defined in the OAuth two specification,
and implemented in many IAM platforms.
Beyond these basic capabilities,
you'll find advanced support for different token formats,
refresh tokens, token revocation, and token storage.
Across the IAM solutions you'll find support
for many different hosting configurations,
including on-prem, cloud, and hybrid.
These should satisfy all the different needs
that you'll see across microservice-based systems.
When choosing a platform,
do a very careful assessment of these solutions
to find the one that best suits your needs.
Identity and access management platforms
are the keystone of how many systems are secured.
Microservices are no different.
However, you'll discover they interweave many
of the latest IAM capabilities in order to secure them.